Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. It is a set of institutions used to execute commands on a computer with various results.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Runtime Interpreter runs Java bytecodes. The compiler compiles code into a .class file which is
   machine readable. The .class file is run through a Java virtual machine where it is executed.

What is IDE?
A. "Integrated development environment" is a software where you can write and run codes.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij, Python, ect..

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Start writing source code using IDE, source code converted in to byte code using javac compiler. Byte code is in
   the form of ".class". then the (class file loads) to JVM using java loader. JVM send the out put to the operating system
   and finally operating system gives the out put to the end "user"

What is class?
A. Java Class is a Blueprint for object.

What is object?
A. Object are instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. That would be the main method. (Main)

Why main is static?
A. Main is the static so JVM can call it without an object of the method existing.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the superclass of all class.
   (java.lang.object)

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is the environment variable where we specify the location of binaries and classpath is the path for Java application
   where the classes you complied will be available.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.  An interface is an empty shell while abstraction class looks like a interface but they are actual classes.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No you cannot. You can implement interface methods and extend abstract classes and create a concrete class.

What is Access Specifier?
A. Determine who is allowed to access methods/data. Can be public or private.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object oriented programming. The program based on objects, which are classes.
   - encapsulation- data hiding,
   - inheritance- inherit from parent/super class,
   - abstraction- use abstract classes to extend and create concrete classes,
   - polymorphism- child class refers to parent class &
     method overload(same signature different outputs) overriding (same body, same signature, but different body)

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package organizes java classes into namespaces and java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. (Application programming interface) is basically a set of routines, protocols, and tools for
   - building software applications.
   - Scanner
   - Buffer Reader
   - String
   - File Reader
   - Serializable
   - Map
   - System Random
   - Iterator

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No, because need for simplicity and java will confuse which parent class method to use.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.This when the same method uses a different signature and it happens within a class.
  Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception occurs during the execution of a program and is a disruption that interrupts the flow of the
   programs instructions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static is a keyword, it denotes that you can access method/variable without creating object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final is used with variables to specify that it's value should not be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final keyword cannot change value/override. (Keyword)
   finally used in blocks (used in try catch block) to execute code and make system messages.(Block)
   finalize- called when garbage collection occurs, when no references made to object (Method)

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor is used to create instance of a class, it initializes the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A default empty constructor will be generated if you don't give one.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. It represents instance of a class.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. This keyword is used to access members of a super class by the extended class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. No JVM is platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
A.10.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
A. java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JVM runs bytecode and JDK is needed to compile Java source code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is basically like a container and JVM is content.

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is where the .java file become .class file. Run time is where you execute the program.

What is heap?
A. heap is the part of the RAM. The heap is the run time data area from which memory for all class instances and
   array is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
A. All variables stay in stack while heap contains the objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String can't be changed so if you change the value another object is crated where in Stringbuffer and
   builder you can change it.

What is Singleton class?
A. A class that can only have objects.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.  Serialization is when you turn data into a stream of bytes and Deserialization is turn a stream of bytes
   back into a copy of the original object.

When to use transient variable in java?
A. Where we do not want the variable serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.  While loop only performs while a specific condition is true. Do while performs at least 1 iteration.

What is Enum?
A. An enum is a special type of data type which is basically a collection (set) of constants.

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator are used in Collection Framwork in Java to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. To prevent security issues.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling 1 constructor from another.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work and parallel collector
   performs minor collections in parallel, which can significantly reduce garbage collection.
What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. At run-time the Java instances are stored in the heap memory area and Java garbage collection is an automatic
   process to manage the runtime memory used by programs.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No. It is not Guaranteed.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap is used to store objects while stack is used to store local variables and functions.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Is a process of examining and modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time.

What is multithreading in java?
A. Basically is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization allows you to control how different threads will execute a piece of code.

What is Framework?
A. Java Frameworks is just large bodies of predefined Java code.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Selenium, JUnit, testng, mockito, jwalk, Cucumber, Spring Test etc.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG is based on JUnit, but it allows parallel testing, makes it easier to group test cases.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Dependencies define in which order project tasks and activities should be carried out.

What is dependency injection in java?
A. When a class is created using the new operator, the class isgit dependant on the parent class. New injects
   the dependency.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.